---
layout: talk
title: "Typo3: From LFI to RCE"
details: true
track: 2
accepted: true
length: 40
timeslot:
  start: 2018-04-09 12:20:00
  end: 2018-04-09 13:00:00
speakers: 
  - name: Timo Müller
    handle: mtimo44
    photo: 
    bio: "Timo Müller is a Computer Science student in Ulm working as a junior security analyst. He is passionate about everything regarding IT-Security and CTFs."
recording_uri: 
slides_uri: 
---

We take a look on how TYPO3 handles its form states and how it holds the potential to gain RCE.
TYPO3 saves serialized PHP objects client side for later use.
Even though such objects are secured with an HMAC to prevent tampering this object handling is a welcoming attacker vector to escalate privileges.
When an attacker gets hold of the secret key used to generate the HMAC he is able to sign arbitrary PHP objects.
Therefore a LFI vulnerability can be used to gain RCE on the target system.
This talk gives an insight about how such an attack could be be executed and the pitfalls I discovered when researching about it.

### Outline
* First of all I want to explain why deserialization can be a problem. In 2017 "Insecure Deserialization" took place 8 on OWASP Top 10. Even though deserialization vulnerabilities often need some fine tuning and expertise about the target system they are a serious threat. Deserialization of arbitrary user controlled data often allows an attacker to gain remote code execution. Serialized data is commonly easy to detect. This is because serialized data follows strict formatting guidelines per programming language. Here I would like to give a quick overview on how serialization works.
* TYPO3 is a CMS written in PHP. Even though TYPO3 doesn't have a big global market share it can be found relatively often on websites of German companies.
* TYPO3 uses serialized objects to remember the state of served forms. In order to protect tampering of the serialized objects TYPO3 relies on the signing of the served objects with an HMAC. Both the serialized object and the HMAC are send to the client when serving a form. When the user submits the form he includes the formstate, appended with the HMAC. On the server the serialized object is then hashed and compared with the submitted HMAC, in case of the HMAC matching the submitted object the serialized state is deserialized. Here I would like to explain the state and HMAC situation through an example TYPO3 POST form request.
* If an attacker wants to be able to modify the form state he needs to gain access to the secret key used to create the HMAC. The secret key is available, in plain text, on the application server running TYPO3 within a config file. If an attacker finds an LFI vulnerability he is able to access the config file and use the LFI vulnerability to gain RCE. Within the presentation I would explain the location on the file system and the contents of the config file.
* Exploiting deserialization vulnerabilities require a so called gadget. A library with which an attacker can chain multiple function calls until he is able to execute arbitrary PHP functions with arbitrary Parameters.
* Since 2016 TYPO3 uses a PHP library "Guzzle" with which it handles HTTP(s) requests. Guzzle is a gadget which allows, through a gadget chain to access such a magic function and execute arbitrary PHP code.
* Here I would like to present the usage of the tool [PHPGGC](https://github.com/ambionics/phpggc)
* How to generate the payload which then establishes a reverse shell.
* For TYPO3 to unserialize the payload we need to generate a valid HMAC of our payload. This is done with the PHP function `hash_hmac`. Here I would like to explain how we generate the HMAC.
* After we created the payload and the HMAC we replace the content of the old `__state` parameter with our serialized payload, appended with the HMAC. Now we have a shell connecting back to us. Here I would like to present a quick demo on the deserialization
* Further I would like to talk about pitfalls I encountered when trying to exploit TYPO3.
* TYPO3 forms have serialized objects in two variants. Variant one is a base64 encoded serialized object which makes no problems while exploiting. Another variant is a serialized object in plain text. Serialized private classes and variables within PHP are preceded by a non printable NULL-byte. The guzzle Gadget chain includes such private assets. This requires a specially formated plain text serialized object. Here I would like to present the formated Parameter string I came up with. Another problem is the missing possibility to use relative paths. An attacker needs to use absolute paths if he wants to access resources. Additionally some PHP functions such as "exec" are disabled within a default TYPO3 and PHP7 installation.
* To round up the talk I want to draw some conclusions. User controlled serialized objects are bad. Signing of objects is vulnerable to a variety of attack vectors. Things an TYPO3 administrator can do to minimize risks of this vulnerability (For example disabling not needed functions)
